Updates to Learning Journey (#17331)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/learn/1_why_aztec/1_privacy_problem.md

## Why Aztec?

Welcome to one of the most important topics in blockchain technology: privacy.

- [TODO] add point about how important financial privacy is

Let's explore why privacy is such a critical challenge for blockchains, and more importantly, why solving it opens up opportunities for innovation.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of this section, you'll understand:

1. Why privacy matters in blockchain
2. Why Web2 is often better for privacy (surprising, right?)
3. The opportunities that private applications enable

---

## Why Privacy Matters in Blockchain

### Problem 1: Blockchain Transparency

> Blockchains are transparent by design. This is what makes them so useful: no one can act dishonestly because every transaction is visible on-chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blockchains are transparent by design. This is what makes them so useful: no one can act dishonestly because every transaction is visible onchain.
```
we don't hyphenate onchain for whatever reason :slightly_smiling_face:

> Historically, transparency was the only way to ensure blockchain security. There _was_ no way to verify that transactions were valid without making all the data public. Blockchains either had to trust centralized intermediaries (like banks) to validate transactions privately, or make everything transparent so the network could collectively verify correctness. Transparency created a trust minimizedf, decentralized system that didn't rely on trusted third parties. But this transparency also comes at a cost: lack of privacy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically, transparency was the only way to ensure blockchain security. There _was_ no way to verify that transactions were valid without making all the data public. Blockchains either had to trust centralized intermediaries (like banks) to validate transactions privately, or make everything transparent so the network could collectively verify correctness. Transparency created a trust minimized, decentralized system that didn't rely on trusted third parties. But this transparency also comes at a cost: lack of privacy.
```
